Variance Elements.
Now there is no limit on what variance elements can be.
It is up to you to pick those elements that would be the most
meaningful to you and of course your stakeholders as well,
so choose wisely.
Common one is certainly money or budget; that should always be one.
Time, schedule; that's always very important.
Maybe mean time to repair.
You're measuring how long it takes your team to fix a bug.
Average bugs per week might be something you measure.
Number of employees per quarter maybe that you're measuring and
monitoring as part of the overall project.
You want to come up with what your variance elements should be for your project.
Now,
you don't want a thousand variance elements because you'll
spend all day just keeping track of those,
and one element won't be enough, so maybe about a half a dozen or so.
But again, it's flexible,
and it's what's meaningful to you and your stakeholders.
Now the only way to know you're on track is to,
of course, first start baseline values.
In other words, what should the actual value be for your variance element?
So what does the value say for money?
The budget is a million dollars.
That's a baseline value.
Okay, so let's define those on the next slide.
Baseline Values.
So giving baseline values to your variance elements is very important
because that's your starting point for your project.
So again,
it's your original planned value or target prior to launching your project.
That's what a baseline value is.
Okay, so here's an example.
I have a task, it's planned to take 100 hours and be completed by June 2nd,
so my planned value is 100 hours, and my planned target is June 2nd.
So I might translate that into the following baseline values,
hours 100, dollars $8, 000 because maybe the rate is $80 per hour,
and a baseline end date.
So those are my starting baseline elements,
and as the project progresses I track actual.
Where are my actual hours, maybe there at 20,
where are my actual dollars, and where's my date?
And then I look at the difference or the variance,
and that's how I look at variances and report against that. Okay, we're going to talk about this in much more detail on the following slides.